Comparison with legacy delegations (#13)
NLnetLabs/incremental-deleg: draft-homburg-deleg-incremental-deleg.md

## Comparison with legacy delegations

### The delegation point

Legacy delegations are realized by an non-authoritative NS RRset at the name of the delegated zone, but in the delegating zone (the parent side of the zone cut).
However, there is another NS RRset by the same name, but now authoritative, in the delegated zone (the child side of the zone cut).
Some resolvers prefer to use the authoritative child side NS RRset (see {{Section 5.4.1 of !RFC2181}}) for contacting the authoritative name servers of the delegated zone, and will use it to reach the zone if they encounter the child side NS RRset authoritatively in responses.
Some resolvers query explicitly for the authoritative child side NS RRset {{I-D.ietf-dnsop-ns-revalidation}}.
However, these NS RRsets can differ in content leading to errors and inconsistencies (see {{Section 3 of I-D.ietf-dnsop-ns-revalidation}}).

Incremental deleg eliminates these issues by placing the referral information, not at the name of the delegated zone, but authoritatively in the delegating zone.

> It is still possible to let the delegated zone be in charge of the information about which authoritative name servers and with capabilities serve the zone, but this is now explicit.

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by this. How is the delegated zone 'in charge' (I assume in the sense of client-side NS records) of IDELEG records?

Author: Sorry I was thinking about usage of IDELEG which we haven't discussed yet, namely, have an AliasMode IDELEL in the parent with as target name a name below the delegated zone, and then ipv4hints and ipv6hints as glue.
But I agree this is introducing all kinds of confusion, so perhaps leave that out for now and bring it up and create text for it later (if anyone wants it in the first place) .

Registrants can choose if they want to control their authoritative information, or outsource it to an operator.

> Incremental deleg brings more commonality in resolver behavior, because of the explicitly registered registrants intentions.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Having the referral information at an authoritative location brings clarity.
There can be no misinterpretation about who is providing the referral (the delegating zone, or the delegated zone).
In an future world where all delegations would be incremental delegations, all names will only be authoritative data, derivable from the name, for resolvers and other applications alike.

### Legacy referrals

Resolvers that support only legacy referrals will be on the internet for the foreseeable future, therefore a legacy referral MUST always be provided alongside the incremental referral.

Legacy referrals can be deduced from the incremental delegation.
An authoritative could (in some cases) synthesize the legacy referral from the incremental delegation, however this is not RECOMMENDED.

> It introduces an element of dynamism which is currently not part of authoritative name server behavior specification.

Author: ```suggestion
It introduces an element of dynamism which is at the time of writing not part of authoritative name server behavior specification.
```
